Aliah Azirah binti Rizuan
azirahrizuan99@gmail.com | +6011 – 1490 1463 | Tebrau, Johor

ABOUT ME
Motivated and detail-oriented recent engineering graduate with a solid foundation in Mechanical Engineering.
Equipped with strong problem-solving skills, technical knowledge, and hands-on experience gained through academic
projects and internships. Eager to apply engineering principles to real-world challenges and contribute to innovative
projects in a professional setting. Known for a proactive approach, quick adaptability, and a commitment to continuous
learning. Ready to bring fresh perspectives and dedicated teamwork to a dynamic engineering team.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
PLC IOT Trainee Oct 2024 – current
Science Human Resource Development Centre, Shah Alam
 Gained hands-on experience in programming, testing, and troubleshooting PLCs with ladder logic and
functional block diagrams. of PLCs, including programming languages (Ladder Logic, Structured Text).
 Worked with IoT devices, setting up connections, data acquisition, and cloud integration for real-time
monitoring.
 Practiced using protocols like Modbus and EtherNet/IP to ensure smooth data exchange.
 Created dashboards to log and visualize data, supporting predictive maintenance efforts.
Mechanical Engineer Protégé May 2024 – Oct 2024
RFS Cekal Sdn. Bhd., Tebrau
 Monitored and inspected mechanical installations, including piping, pumps, and structural components to
ensure quality and compliance with engineering standards.
 Liaised closely with consultant and site workers to resolve technical issues, optimized workflows and facilitate
smooth project progression.
 Conducted regular safety checks and enforced safety protocols, contributing to a safe working environment
on-site.
 Prepared daily report and project progress, including work completed and adjustment made to the plan.
 Maintained clear documentation for inspection and quality assessment.
Assistance Engineer July 2022 – Sept 2022
Department of Paintshop, Hicom Automotives, Pekan
 Conducted inspection of car body from lump and defect after Pre-treatment and Electrocoating (PTED) process
which apply an anti-corrosive primer to the car body before assembled to main component.
 Performed production time cycle of all sub-station in department to increase production output and make sure
production works smoothly without delay assisted by Project Engineer.
 Managed confidential documents and bills of material to ensure the document completed also data comply
with specification.

EDUCATION & CERTIFICATIONS
Bachelor of Graphic Designer (Hons.)
Universiti Teknikal Malaysia , Melaka
Diploma in Machanical Engineering
Universiti Teknikal Malaysia , Melaka

LANGUAGES
Malay
Native or Bilingual Proficiency
English
Professional Working Proficiency

SKILLS
Technical Skills Computer Skills
 Quality data analysis  Microsoft Office
 Quality control auditing  SOLIDWORKS
 Efficiency improvement  AutoCAD
 Knowledge of quality and standards  Matlab
 Critical thinking  Node-RED
 ANSYS

CERTIFICATES
 AutoCAD Professional Certification Preparation Course, UTeM (2022)
 Seminar on Site Inspection and Supervision (Professional Career), Online(2024)
 Calibration and Measurement (SIRIM), Johor Skills (2024)
 CIDB Green Card 
